src/docs/zh-hans/index.md, before:

---
# https://vitepress.dev/reference/default-theme-home-page
layout: home

hero:
  name: "Asylum.wiki"
  text: ""
  tagline: "任何人都有寻求安全的权利"
---

绝大多数国家将性认同和性取向作为承认的迫害恐惧[1]，但仍有部分国家不认可，因而请再三核实目的国家是否承认。

同时，以加拿大为例，难民分为「公约难民（Convention Refugees）」与「受保护人（Protected Person）」。性取向和认同是公约难民的范围，但同时，由于跨性别者与其他性多样性群体可能面对的危险结果，同样可能被受保护人的定义包含。

本项目包括:

- [资源整合](/zh-hans/refs)
- [欧洲](/zh-hans/eu)
- 亚洲
  - [新加坡](/zh-hans/as/sg)
- 大洋洲
  - [澳大利亚](/zh-hans/oc/au)

[1]: As a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951 and owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it. （由于 1951 年 1 月 1 日之前发生的事件，并且由于有充分理由害怕因种族、宗教、国籍、特定社会团体成员身份或政治观点而受到迫害，因此身在其国籍国之外，无法或由于这种恐惧，不愿意利用该国的保护；或因此类事件而没有国籍并身处其先前惯常居住国之外而无法或由于这种恐惧而不愿返回该国的人。） From [Convention relating to the Status of Refugees - OHCHR](https://www.ohchr.org/en/instruments-mechanisms/instruments/convention-relating-status-refugees)
[2]: [（关于性多样性群体的）难民与庇护宣传手册 - 联合国](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/Documents/Issues/Discrimination/LGBT/FactSheets/UNFEFactSheet_Refuge_Asylum_CH.pdf)

Commit message:

Update content, zh-hans   - add start reading button   - Split refs.md into visa.md and asylum.md

src/docs/zh-hans/index.md, after:

---
# https://vitepress.dev/reference/default-theme-home-page
layout: home

hero:
  name: "Asylum.wiki"
  text: ""
  tagline: "任何人都有寻求安全的权利"
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: "开始阅读"
      link: /zh-hans/refs/asylum/
---

绝大多数国家将性认同和性取向作为承认的迫害恐惧[^1]，但仍有部分国家不认可，因而请再三核实目的国家是否承认。

同时，以加拿大为例，难民分为「公约难民（Convention Refugees）」与「受保护人（Protected Person）」。性取向和认同是公约难民的范围，但同时，由于跨性别者与其他性多样性群体可能面对的危险结果，同样可能被受保护人的定义包含。

[^1]: As a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951 and owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality and is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country; or who, not having a nationality and being outside the country of his former habitual residence as a result of such events, is unable or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to return to it. （由于 1951 年 1 月 1 日之前发生的事件，并且由于有充分理由害怕因种族、宗教、国籍、特定社会团体成员身份或政治观点而受到迫害，因此身在其国籍国之外，无法或由于这种恐惧，不愿意利用该国的保护；或因此类事件而没有国籍并身处其先前惯常居住国之外而无法或由于这种恐惧而不愿返回该国的人。） From [Convention relating to the Status of Refugees - OHCHR](https://www.ohchr.org/en/instruments-mechanisms/instruments/convention-relating-status-refugees)
[^2]: [（关于性多样性群体的）难民与庇护宣传手册 - 联合国](https://www.ohchr.org/sites/default/files/Documents/Issues/Discrimination/LGBT/FactSheets/UNFEFactSheet_Refuge_Asylum_CH.pdf)
